Archaeological science as community enterprise

If 10 years ago it seemed largely irrelevant and out of scope to adopt FOSS (Free Open-Source Software), the setting dramatically changed. Nowadays to address methodological and theoretical issues in archaeology, FOSS are attractive and promise access to powerful toolboxes accompanied with lifelong sustainability. An unexpected or unintended outgrowth of the adoption of FOSS is the interaction with FOSS Communities and the philosophy of software development. Such communities "are a global melting pot of diverse professions and skills that contribute to the progression of the goals represented by the software" (Wikipedia: The Free Encyclopedia, s.v. "[Humanitarian-FOSS](en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Humanitarian-FOSS)"). Thus, archaeologist adopting FOSS deals with free, informal and wider communities, so-called FOSS communities. Each software or a specific package develops a community maintaining the software, providing advice, case examples, advertising and developing new tools. Looking for help, new ideas, possibilities of new tasks, reading or collaborate in the development of FOSS give access for archaeologist to others, less formal, but scientific communities. Platforms like [Wikipedia](http://www.wikipedia.org/) or [Stack Overflow](http://stackoverflow.com/) challenge scientific communication and the reward principle driven by the traditional academic. 
This paper addresses how FOSS and FOSS-communities provide a common language and goal through which foreign disciplines are revisited. It also takes this different perspectives to look how this framework could enrich and challenge science and more specifically archaeological research.
